hello you must fans I'm incredibly
excited to be here with Grant Sanderson
from three blue one brown if you don't
recognize him you may know the voice
let's go with that it's a channel about
mathematics the general theme is one of
visualizing various different topics and
I often try to find problems where you
have some shift in insight or shift in
perspective that turns a hard thing easy
yeah maybe the general goal really nice
visualizations and animations and great
little pie characters oh yeah the answer
for morphic Pius in critical so Grant is
very very kindly agreed to come have a
chat with me so I tried to get creative
and came up with this idea of having
pots of questions and then grants gonna
roll the dice I'm gonna draw a question
from a pot and you're gonna hopefully
answer the question yeah the mistake of
telling the ahead of time that these all
came from speed dating website these
questions did go for speed their
websites with the Oxford listen I did
remove the dating specific questions
I've organized the maths pop massive
maybe the essence for you I don't
understand this word we have the the
general pot circuit so two or three and
we'll be taking a question from the
general questions we've got four to five
is fun okay I don't I can't remember how
I categorize these what's the absolute
danger potentially the big ones I don't
know I don't really know any visitor
rubbish three let's see we get okay so
three is a general question so I'm gonna
route around you here
hey Cornell my generals there will okay
Seminole knowledge like University
Challenge quit all right what are you
currently watching oh man I usually say
the good place but that ended there in
place you don't know the good place
so good it's okay in the title is that
it it's a very quirky sitcom about the
afterlife oh okay yes I have heard a bit
more rallies yes but it just finished so
you could just finish so I can't say
that that's what I'm watching what's
next then I don't know I'm sort of
between between shows as far as like
that sort of time een there's a new Tube
channels that I watch ok numberphile
gray dots are right abroad France is
currently watching double fine okay I
feel like miscellaneous would have been
a more appropriate title I'm fine that's
worried but right we'll see all right
all right
oh do you break traffic rules if you do
not see a cop around what do we can't
speed limits as traffic rules I think
yes at some point in your driving career
you've broken by the tiniest amount of
speed love it I think I've purposefully
run red lights in circumstances where I
just had no confidence that the light
would actually turn yeah I feel like
that's a whole that's like a whole box
problem right oh this is the one I
wanted okay this is what was your most
embarrassing moment Oh fascinating
I feel like I'm someone who gets very
easily embarrassed okay
yeah so I feel like as soon as you're
talking about embarrassment you've got
to you've got to go back to school
because like that's a lot more like
uncertainty yeah I don't know if this is
the accurate answer for most
embarrassing but it's the one that pops
into my mind right now
you ever do like Mad Libs or something
oh I choose an adjective
act as a verb and then later you like
put them all in yes and for somebody it
was like some BS class were like we were
ending things by doing some bad lip type
thing right yeah
so I do mind and I I think the phrase
that came about was something apparently
innocuous but it was like ah de yada
yada with an angry tree and to me this
was like super funny and then I just
kind of like started laughing to myself
a lot and like everyone else in the
class is like you've been pretty good
and I'm like laughing more because I
know like it's not actually that funny
yeah yeah yeah and I just can't stop in
and I'm like crying crying and at this
point then the more that happens the
more it draws attention with people like
ah this has got to be like really funny
like what is it that's like bringing you
to tears and I just I have to hold I
just have to be like I can't tell you
because it's so lame that like now I'm
just like literally in tears in front of
the class for like the phrase angry tree
which then it's a spiral on itself or
feeling more embarrassed yeah yeah so
you never actually revealed I think I
had to because like imagine the inner
student and you've got someone who's
like cracking up to that point like well
we're just gonna like we're gonna take
it we're gonna find out it's clearly
such a funny thing yeah again I don't
know if that's the most embarrassing but
for some reason that I could see how let
you say it's a that would be horrible
as a student school student high school
student oh yeah yeah absolutely
where we going next alright six in a row
I don't know why they call this danger
was interesting do you think magic is
real obviously okay
really how do you think about love is
magic does that that's like the legal
system it's as real as you believe it is
this is alright fat yeah okay alright
[Laughter]
six again all right we see this
different day that one's broken
do you believe in the paranormal no okay
all right there it is not even even
potential ghost sightings or UFOs
anything that you've just know all right
and then you've got a two didn't use so
I guess in very general you run is it
what are you currently reading oh do you
know so I'm reading a book about Xerox
PARC win Apple sued Microsoft for
stealing all of their IP associated with
like gooeys and some of the earliest
admins and computers actually being
usable rather than just like typing and
stuff
Microsoft defense was not like no we
didn't steal it from you their defense
was yes we stole all of that is what we
did from Xerox PARC and so did you right
which is kind of true I mean it depends
on what you want to mean by steal but
it's definitely the case that like Steve
Jobs visited Xerox PARC and was like
this is some of the most amazing thing
I've ever seen but it was a lot of like
early pioneers in human-computer
interactions and the book dealers of
lightning is just sort of like a long
series of summaries of interviews with
people who worked a park yeah good stuff
did you throw the dice away I did I
think I do have another dice would you
like me to get a second dice no I
I mean I'm violating your whole I claims
no superstition it is statistically
unlikely extremely statistically I could
get five sixes out of the first seven
that's insane okay that is grunts under
seven choose five right times one sixth
to the one six to the fifth times five
six squared right which
point zero zero one eight seven about
two and a thousand okay you loaded today
anyway
yeah are 56 I like this one again I'm
like more these what is the most
adventurous thing you've ever done
that's a good question um again it might
not be the most one but very recently in
mind is the fact that I did a comedy
show for the first time in my life
outside my comfort zone yeah and it was
great fun because it was one of the Matt
Parker events where it's branded for
like nerdiness right it's called an
evening of unnecessary detail so a
little bit tamer than like your bra open
mic night like following the audience
but it was it was different and it was
fun
next we went over pretty well all things
considered we allowed to know more about
what you did or is this to be kept
secret for future I did a comedic song
okay and singing obviously themed around
Matt so it was and that was another
thing to make it a little outside the
comfort zone and feel adventurous which
is just like not I mean I like music
right but it's I don't I don't usually
perform in any sort of vocal capacity
but like you said it went shockingly
well and people were very receptive and
all the laughs where I wanted there to
be laughs and worked well also say
future career in singer-songwriter this
could be this could be the the new
branch of three blue red Brown I really
got enamored with with singing sorry
it's a - it's a - alright so either
sixes or twos yeah comes out that came
from a monopoly set so good so if it is
if it is a be skeptical of your mother
that's my frenzy oh it's what are your
favorite places did you visit it ooh
there was this one time when somewhat my
dad's a pilot and he was just doing this
long international trip to Palau which
is an island off in the Pacific yeah and
it it's just like such a sweet trip for
him to have gotten because it involves
like flying to pull out and like staying
there for four days so I just tagged
along with him oh it's sort of like is
what a lot of people think of Hawaii as
being but without as much of the broader
like tourist industry of course there is
some right because yeah kind of its
whole attraction there just lovely just
a lovely little like spot I'm very
jealous and like a lake full of
jellyfish that have lost their stinging
ability over eons of evolution that you
can just swim through just like swimming
with jellyfish is it just Pacific's
about late stop yeah because it's kind
of like the lake hasn't been connected
to the ocean for I eyes yeah yeah
millions of years or something so it's
just full of jellyfish who can't sting
so you're told hope that that's true
some people get very freaked out by this
like slimy and surreal experience yeah
good defense by we go five right the fun
pot fun dreadful do you have a party
trick hmm I'm guessing if yes we want to
hear it this is way lamer than it should
be but everyone can say their alphabet
abcdefg yeah can you say your alphabet
backwards I can't but not very quickly
so like 0 x WV u TS r qpo and then but
then you might ask like can you do
something like say the alphabet where
you're skipping every three as you go
forward right we're gonna be like a DG I
am
the S which they could be faster the Z
there's some that was pretty fast and I
say like I'm skip every four going
backwards or something which would be zv
r and i f be yes i would be better if
they could be very rattled off yes yeah
yeah that's a lot faster like I feel
like I could probably do it but like the
process it I would be almost like
thinking of each one as I was getting to
hopefully be the party trick component
Jim I think that's probably pretty lame
it's useful as well because that's the
supposedly one of the things that if you
get pulled over by a policeman oh right
they think you're drunk they say can you
say the alphabet backwards yeah sorry
make sure you can still do it it's how
can we do it drag could do like alphabet
forwards I think oh yeah so I have to be
very drunk it's three that's yeah I
think that's it it should be one in six
chance of math but with your diet what
is your favorite movie Oh God
well favorites your like favorite is a
bit narrowing favorite questions are
hard I'll say that because what it what
it ends up doing is making you think of
like what pops to mind most immediate
like for example Good Will Hunting comes
into mind but this like came up in the
talk that I was giving ya yesterday so
it's not untrue but I just sort of have
to think through if that's actually case
oh um
again recent but like coming away just
feeling like wow that was I'm really
glad that I watched that and just like
filth awesome knives out have you seen
it I haven't seen oh no highly
recommended yeah very reason but just
one of the first times in a long time
that I've gone out to see a movie where
came out like 100 great yeah
with high expectations go yeah yeah
hopefully not favorite dude damn only
guy do you have any hidden talents this
is very much like the party trick one
you're not just asking do I have any
hidden talents you're asking do I have
any hidden talents that I'm comfortable
asking you to immediately display you
can make sure that they they required
say an instrument or something that the
one that comes to mind is and it could
be fooling myself I think I'm pretty
good at making a trumpet sound with my
now I can't say that without you asking
me to do it which I'm just gonna refuse
okay the problem is it does not work if
you're smiling requires having a pretty
straight face to do it how do you do it
dude you just use your mouse did you
have this like optimal I always pretty
good that like that you know it's not
quite there yeah
all right usually don't go back with the
6x with the sixes over yes we might run
out of danger questions you know do
aliens exist Oh classic like Fermi
paradox on yeah it doesn't seem
unreasonable that of all of the galaxies
out there of all of like the snap
systems that intelligent life has come
up or even non intelligent life in some
capacity I wouldn't be surprised if just
the way things play out in the history
of the universe is that most intelligent
civilizations just can't talk to each
other
because the speed of light limitations
that like we're just too far apart in
which case it's kind of this interesting
question I'm like does it even matter if
they do I yeah and I guess I won't even
get into the question of I mean there's
a whole subculture of people who like
believe that we've been visited
by aliens just that's a separate
question okay existence yes I think I
really like this is it seems it seems a
nonzero probability say that oh you
think it's somewhere someplace that must
be other life it would I mean it's just
it would be interesting if there wasn't
that told and anyone who's thought about
the great filter should be kind of
worried by that fact but out of the open
early on some sort of low-key believe
the ghost if you could be granted three
wishes what would they be okay we're
gonna go in assuming that the you know
they've taken out all the caveats right
you can't ask for infinitely yeah yeah
yeah yeah that's a magical yeah but it's
more just like things that you would
genuinely want in life
I would I would like to be to be easier
for people with an entrepreneurial
instinct and a college education in
America - just like immediately get a
green card that's it yeah that's one
thing I might wish for it's like more
immediate market transparency and
everything if somehow like everything
was a genuinely competitive environment
right rather than like depending on a
little bit of insider knowledge or you
happen to be inside in such location or
if I don't know like how that would
actually work I'd have to work on the
contract for the know what always
actually like transparent okay yeah in
the world and and as many brownies as I
want for the rest of my life right
silly ridiculous like child away from
good so it would be proud news for you
yeah yes like you think is round is
about II like it
alright sing this one final say okay
goes yeah just infinite six there's been
a single match once because for God's
sake yes this is a good day to question
to finish what's the most reckless thing
you've ever done when I was little
on my street I would I would kind of
like to ride on a skateboard sort of on
my belly lose style like underneath the
parked cars on the street
if you missing a tiny bit oh is it all
the really like raised like jeeps like
if you're like a six year old kid and
you like fun you like parties there's
some give underneath cars and I'm just
I'm thinking like I'd be terrified to
try and do that you should be like this
this was a genuinely bad reckless thing
to do dumb things I did like that as a
kid I think yeah one time let's find X
like writing a shopping cart down the
hill they're like coming towards some
buses they're gonna kill the boss I
didn't do something they jumped out I
did but it's like it's very hard to jump
out of a shopping yeah yeah because it's
got like wheels such that you can't yeah
but I like thing and you don't have
great intuitions for conservation of
momentum when yeah it's not a natural
but you do have to jump ahead in some
way things like I think I've gotten
better since being a kid about
recklessness I'm kind of a boring person
now right okay math questions yeah we
have to do so okay we're just gonna at
this point they coming out I'm just
gonna pick out some fun math questions
okay what is the worst fan mail you've
ever received first fan mail oh good um
lots and lots of proof so the famous
problem
that's not originally one funny when I
remember this was super early on like
before I started working for Khan
Academy the channel was like in its
absolute infancy yeah this one person
who wrote this very long you know he was
he was positive that I was actually Sal
Khan and the three blue and brown was
just like this secretive side project
something different and the whole email
was this little like wink of like I
understand I probably did cause it was
early enough on that I wasn't really
getting the response was simply like the
emoji going like yeah okay
favorite topic researched so when you
really enjoyed that you like I'm gonna
do a video on this and then when she got
into the research you really really felt
this was really enjoyable to do I loved
quaternion stuff I mean okay so I made a
video that was just about like a way you
can visualize what quaternion
multiplication does in four dimensions
but in like in digging into that there's
just lots of delightful things about it
where for example the fact that
individual quaternions correspond to
motions and rotations of a
three-dimensional sphere means things
like let's say you take the symmetry
group of a cube right which is basically
a set of twenty-four different rotations
that you can apply to it each of those
rotations corresponds to a point on a
hypersphere right unit quaternion really
it's a pair of points because there's
this two to one thing but all of those
points form the vertices of a natural
polytope and quite often there's this
like nice relationship between
symmetries of 3d shapes like platonic
solids and platonic or like the do you
call those platonic polytopes whatever
the six like regular four-dimensional
and you know it's probably so
six of them yeah okay so like their
vertices correspond to symmetries it's
just a very beautiful idea that I think
this doesn't have to be a max related
answer but what is the most obscure
class you took a college it is not a
math related 1/4 I wanted to take a
philosophy class of some kind and I sort
of I didn't have any clear aims I wasn't
gonna minor and philosophy anything like
this was just like okay let's just
there was one that was called like space
mind and discursive knowledge I think
and turned out it was basically just
like a PhD student like talking through
his thesis loci maybe having us like
look over so quickly but it was it was
great fun because the class consisted
because it was the super obscure thing
that like no one would take it was like
me and then I recruited my like brother
and a friend of ours to take it at the
same time because they were also
interested in doing something philosophy
in the doramin freshmen and the the
class would consist of us coming in
yelling at each other for like two hours
very deeply the single freshmen just
remain silent
okay and then repeat week after week and
it was loads of fun and just like very
like I said obscure because it's
basically just some dudes yeah yes where
he was all is how do how do views of
whether space is like absolute or
relative and arguments there in like
what implications do they have for
discursive knowledge how like articulate
able knowledge can be of the
possibilities which we never rolled
anyway favorite number one all right do
we have a reason or we just it's a great
number it's a multiplicative identity
all right you build the natural numbers
ever just adding one onto itself it's
gonna show up in any sort of ring that
you have great number oh yeah no I don't
disagree favorite puzzle hmm that's very
math isn't it yes they're not the one we
could change
at the moment so this will be like a
three-way crossover kind of thing that I
don't know when you're gonna post this
but there's a puzzle that I just did it
like a collaborative video with Matt
Parker about it involves a chess board
and 64-point sitting on it okay I won't
describe it here instead I'll say okay
yes is in at the moment one of my
favorite puzzles because it's just way
delightful which you can watch yeah
either to my channel or stand-up maths
depending on when this is posted you
should go watch them now if they are
available they will be available soon
yeah that's that silver puzzle alright
perfect last couple favorite
mathematician you know this might be a
little basic but Euler no I see he's my
favorite say I do like I'm a complete he
just does everything it's absurd how
prolific he was yes I and like prolific
with cleverness not just oh here I'm
putting out a lot of material but each
one is like a genuinely insightful
solution to a problem that may or may
not look he found a new field just
insane okay yeah okay favorite theorem
ooh
Oh like result or conjecture or do be
cayley-hamilton I hope I'm not like
mixing up the names when you take the
characteristic polynomial of the matrix
and you plug it into itself that you get
zero yes yeah I think that's very
beautiful
yeah nice order to get rather think
through why it's true and such
yeah yeah okay these last two favorite
millennium problem hmm
you know again maybe I'm being a bit
basic Ramon
it's obviously I'm gonna say obvious
take yeah that's because I kind of I
have a certain fondness for prime
numbers and also for 48 type stuff right
and it being something that blends those
two is very nice yeah awesome and then
the file math questions your favorite
equation hmm
okay so once again suffering from the
recency of what's ever bubbling in my
mind I remember the first time I ever
saw the euler product for the sort of
the factorization of the zeta function
okay then I saw it in the back of this
it was just this little they were called
like wooden books they were just like
full of little math facts and
illustrations and such and just as this
obscure little thing tucked away in the
back it was like you take the sum of one
over N to the s and it equals the
product of you know 1 over 1 minus want
to repeat to the S I was like what is
that and it's a link for P prime and the
idea of having something where you have
all of the orderly natural numbers on
one side and all of the apparently
unordered like Prime members on the
other and just in a simple equation yeah
it was just a genuinely like what kind
of moment for me as a as a kid kind of
starting to learn about this stuff so I
think that that has a burned spot in a
fond portion of my I'm gonna call this
the last one all right okay so this one
came from the math pot so I'm taking any
math space but it's sort of relevant
seeing seeing is what you do I don't
know what these parts mean I feel like I
got some kind of system and then it made
sense to me what I was doing you know
this is the first run-through you've
been very kind to be the sort of I
didn't mean to judge it's I'm obviously
partly very protective thank you fall
about the jars are great okay thank you
the best I've ever seen
all right so big finale it's a nice on
that okay what is the best fun rail you
have ever received
okay something nice heartwarming to go
out leave a warm fuzzy feeling inside I
won't make fun of you for the fact that
it's not a math question okay so that I
mean I will see the Internet's very nice
especially when it comes to math
communication right for all the mutation
kids so there's lots of like very
sincere thanks especially from college
students and I think I don't have any
specific ones and I'm not even sure if I
want to mention them but every now and
then there
people with various kinds of learning
impairments who if for whatever reason
like having it visualized ends up being
particularly helpful or a welcomed
contrast from the format's of Maca been
seen before
and my goal often is that I want people
to self-identify as loving that okay
whether that means you're going to study
a lot of it or just that when you're in
an everyday conversation with someone
you don't say like oh I've always hated
math yeah yeah yeah so seeing that that
that can actually happen and some people
at least claim that has made a
difference on that front especially in
the face of ADHD or some sort of
particular yeah thing that has made of
it of course is difficult
that's just heartwarming to me anyway
gets a lot of motivation to keep going
yeah awesome I think that is the perfect
way almost like it was plaid nice so I
delighted the whole thing would
consistently show sixes never show a one
so that we defaulted always going from
the one at the end and then you pour
that well strategize thanks so much
thank you for coming and having a chat
thank you everyone for watching I'm sure
you all do not need to be told to go and
watch grants channel but if you do not
know about the amazing three blue one
brown absolutely please do go and check
it out it's literally the best thing on
the Internet always thought that there's
a lot that could be your best they're
gonna say great stuff others and there's
another thing and also if you have
enjoyed video please do subscribe to my
tail as well that would be with awesome
thank you okay alright I'll sees you
you